CLDR-15370 More Survey Tool Guide updates (#5683)
unicode-org/cldr: docs/site/translation/getting-started/guide.md

![Log In button in upper right hand corner of Survey Tool](../../images/gettingStartedGuideNotOpenYet.jpeg)

Your old votes will be imported automatically the first time you log in. Your previous votes will only be imported **if they match** the most recently released data.
If you have voted previously, you will see a message showing the number of your votes that matched the currently winning votes that have been auto-imported.
Import of your old votes will take some time, but this is only done at the first log-in for a new [General Submission][] cycle.

![Notification of number of automatically imported votes](../../images/gettingStartedGuideOldWinningVotes.jpg)

You can still import your old voted data that **DO NOT match** the winning value in the last released data. To do this:

1. Go to the **☰ Menu**, look under **My Votes**, and choose **Import Old Votes**.

	<img src="../../images/GettingStartedGuideImportOldVotes.png" alt="Import Old Votes option in menu" width="300">

2. You can choose to limit your import to specific items.

	![Import selected items option](../../images/gettingStartedGuideImportSelectedItems.jpeg)

> 3. Scroll to the bottom to see the category selection for bulk import.

Reviewer: For later: I think a few tasks where vetters probably don't do them very often (like bulk import) could be in a separate place, with a pointer to them. That would make the document less daunting...

not a blocker, just something to consider.

Author: Sure, let me move them out in the next PR

Each language is followed by a list of regions that represent specific locales. The locale that is grayed out and preceded by an × is the default locale.
The others are considered “sub-locales”. If you are working on the default locale, select the language name instead of the region name.
For example, if you work on Spanish in general (default = Spain),
you will see that that Spain is grayed out in the list below: choosing Spanish means that you are working on the default (Spanish for Spain).

If you are working on a specific variant language (or "sub-locale"), you will need to pick a non-default region.
For example, if you are vetting Mexican Spanish, pick **Mexico**. (You should see a pencil icon before Mexico instead of Spanish in this situation.)

<br clear="left" />

---

## Check your coverage level

<img src="../../images/gettingStartedGuideCoverageDropDown.png" alt="Coverage dropdown menu" style="float: left; width: 300px; margin-right: 20px;">

After you've selected your locale but before you start contributing,
it is always good to check your [coverage level][] to make sure it matches the level you are planning to contribute to.

> Which items are shown to you for review in the [Dashboard[], along with [how your progress is tracked](#progress-widget) is based on your target coverage level.

Author: ```suggestion
Which items are shown to you for review in the [Dashboard][], along with [how your progress is tracked](#progress-widget) is based on your target coverage level.
```

To check you coverage level click on the drop down to the right of the ☰ menu button.
The coverage level which is followed by "(Default)" is your current coverage level.
For example the coverage level in this screenshot is [Modern][]
If your default coverage level is not correct you can follow [Reporting Survey Tool issues][] to have it fixed.

<br clear="left" />

---

## Voting view

Once you have selected your locale, more options show up in the left left navigation bar.
It is usually hidden unless you click on the **\>** icon to access it.
Select a section, and you'll see a table to enter votes which contains seven columns with key information about that item.

| Column name | Description |
| :---------: | :---------- |

> | **Code**    | The code CLDR uses to identify this data point. You can search for codes using the [Survey Tool Search functionality][] |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| **Code**    | The code CLDR uses to identify this data point. You can search for codes using the [Survey Tool Search functionality][]. |
```

| **English** | The English value of the data point (the text you are to localize). A 👁️‍🗨️ icon will be visible if there are any open posts, while a 💬 shows that there are closed forum posts for that item. Hovering over a **ⓘ** icon will display a tooltip with additional information, a **ⓔ** icon will shows a tooltips with an example. |
| **Abstain** | The default vote value until you vote on an item. You can also use this to retract a vote, or when you are unsure of your vote. |
| **A**       | The value’s current draft status. We use emoji for these icons so that you can use Find on Page in your browser to look for them. The full list of [draft status symbols][] is in a table at the end of this section. |
| **Winning** | This is the currently winning value. If the Survey Tool would close now, this is the value we would publish. If the value has a blue star next to it, that means it’s also the value that was published in the most recent CLDR release. |

> | **Add**    | If the winning value is not correct and is not listed under Others, then use the plus button here to enter the correct value. If you enter a new value, your vote will be applied to it automatically. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| **Add**    | If the winning value is not correct and is not listed under Others, then use the plus button to enter the correct value. If you enter a new value, your vote will be applied to it automatically. |
```

> | **Others** | other suggested values, not currently winning, but available to vote for. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| **Others** | Other suggested values, not currently winning, but available to vote for. |
```

![Image of the 7 columns in the voting view](../../images/gettingStartedGuideArabic.png)

<br>

More information that can't easily be visualized in the table can be seen in the [Info Panel][] which is described later in this guide. _If the [Info Panel][] was turned off, click on the **Open Info Panel** button near the top right of the window._

![Button to open Info Panel if the Info Panel is currently closed](../../images/gettingStartedGuideCookies.png)

### How to vote

You can vote by either clicking on the radio button for an exisiting value or clicking on the + icon to submit a new value and vote for it.
There are buttons you can click to copy over the English value or the currently winning value, so that you can have that as the base of your edit.

> The [Special Characters][] section below explains how to edit values if you need to add BIDI markers or a specific type of white space such as a no-break thin space NBTSP.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The [Special Characters][] section below explains how to edit values if you need to add bidirectional markers or a specific type of white space such as a no-break thin space (NBTSP).
```

start working on the **Core Data** section and go through the rest of the sections one by one.
If the locale is mostly complete, then go to the [Dashboard][] section below for a guide on how to navigate the priority items for your locale in the current cycle.

### Icons

The main panel uses icons to indicate important information and possible problems. After clicking on the **Code** cell, look to the right-side info panel for more details.

![List of icons used in the voting view](../../images/gettingStartedGuideIcon.png)

(Icons for the **Dashboard** are listed in the [Dashboard Icons][] section below.)

### Special Characters

Some items may use special characters, especially invisible characters. 

These will be shown underneath the regular value in an additional box. For example:

<img width="520" height="169" alt="Text input with Show Hidden" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/9a112871-1050-4073-81b8-a3581b3d5000" />

This indicates that there is a special character that was not visible in the upper line, in this case a no-break thin space, U+202F.

When you are adding a value, you can see any "Hidden" characters, and insert additional ones.

> These include characters that are completely invisible, as well as variants of spaces.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These include characters that are completely invisible, variants of spaces, plus characters that are easily confusible, such and – (N-dash) vs - (ASCII hyphen-minus).
```

For example, in the image below, someone is in the middle of adding a new item. 

> There is a new "eye" icon in the bottom left that the user can toggle to see hidden characters, and they have turned it on. 

Reviewer: (we'll forget to remove the 'new' later on; the Info Hub will have the 'new' information.)

```suggestion
There is an "eye" icon in the bottom left that the user can toggle to see hidden characters, and they have turned it on. 
```

Reviewer 3: "a" -> "an"

Reviewer 2: "a eye for an eye..."

> That opens a new (uneditable) box below the text entry, where they can see the NBTSP (non-breaking space) variant of the space character in a 'chit'.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
That opens a new (uneditable) box below the text entry, where they can see the NBTSP (non-breaking thin space) variant of the space character in a 'chit'.
```

Reviewer 2: I didn't look at the image to see which it is, so the edit here may be to say "NBSP (non-breaking space)"

They realize that they need to insert a hidden character, 

> so they pull down the insert-character menu from the new "insert-character" icon in the top left.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
so they pull down the insert-character menu from the "insert-character" icon in the top left.
```

Reviewer 2: Just to future-proof the text.

1. Once you have selected your locale, more options show up in the left sidebar. (The sidebar only shows if you mouse over the **\>** character on the left.)
2. If the locale is relatively new and not very complete, start working on the **Core Data** section and go through the rest of the sections. If the locale is mostly complete, then go to the [Dashboard][] (below).
3. Once you have selected a section, you'll see a table to enter votes in. The main table has these columns ordered from left to right:

	| Column name | Description |
	| :---------: | :---------- |
	| **Code**    | The code CLDR uses to identify this data point. You can search for codes using the [Survey Tool Search functionality][] |
	| **English** | The English value of the data point (the text you are to localize). |
	| **Abstain** | The default vote value until you vote on an item. You can also use this to retract a vote, or when you are unsure of your vote. |
	| **A**       | The value’s current [draft status][]. We use emoji for these icons so that you can use Find on Page in your browser to look for them. The full list of [draft status symbols][] is in the table at the end of this section. |

> 	| **Winning** | This is the currently winning value. If the Survey Tool would close now, this is the value we would publish. If the value has a blue star next to it, that means it’s also the value that was published in the previous version. Normally it takes at least two votes from two different organizations to change value: in some locales the bar is lower, and for some items it is higher. It is important to vote to confirm the best item, even if it already appears in the Winning column. </br> * An approved value makes it clear to anyone using CLDR data — and to the CLDR-TC — that the value is correct for your locale. </br> * An approved value is less likely to be accidentally overturned: Suppose that 3 organizations agree that a value is right, but don't vote for it, leaving the winning value with a lower status. Later a fourth organization votes for a suboptimal alternative, which then wins, because the winning value was not approved. |

Reviewer: To avoid overloading the table, I'd suggest moving "Normally ...  was not approved." to after the table, with an explanatory paragraph.

Author: I'll try to restructure and update the images and then send for review. I plan to keep this PR in draft status until I'm done, but I am open to feedback along the way.

4. Click on one of the radio buttons to make your vote. The winning status changes in real-time so depending on vote requirements and existing votes, your vote may move your desired value to the winning column right away.
    1. Look at the Regional Variants to see if any should be changed: see **Info Panel** below.
5. Once you are done with all the sections, go to [Dashboard][] (below).
6. Under the English column, look for **ⓘ** for additional information and **ⓔ** for an example.

#### Draft status symbols

| Symbol | Symbol Name | Status | Description |
|:------:| ----------- | ------ | ----------- |
| ✅ | Approved | Enough votes for use in implementantations. "Approved" is the highest draft status for values. |
| ☑️ | Contributed | The value has been confirmed but not enough people have voted on it to qualify as "approved". |
| ✖️ | Provisional | The value has "Provisional" draft status. Many implementations will not use this data. |
| ❌ | Unconfirmed | The value has not been confirmed at any level. Most implementations will not use this data. |
|  🕳️ | Missing | The value is currently completely missing in your locale. |

> | ⬆️ | Inherited | Used in combination with ✖️ and ❌ icons. It indicates that the value will be inherited (unless it gets stronger approval). Most likely to appear on provisional and unconfirmed items. A cross is not necessarily bad for sub-locales. If the parent locale has a good value, the sub-locale will inherit it. Check the **Winning** column. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| ✖️ | Provisional | The value has "Provisional" draft status. Most implementations will not use this data. |
| ❌ | Unconfirmed | The value has not been confirmed at any level. Most implementations will not use this data. |
 ⬆️ | Inherited | Used in combination with ✖️ and ❌ icons. It indicates that the value will be inherited (unless it gets stronger approval). Most likely to appear on provisional and unconfirmed items. A ✖️ or ❌  is not necessarily bad for sub-locales. If the parent locale has a good value, the sub-locale will inherit it. Check the **Winning** column. |
 |  🕳️ | Missing | The value is completely missing in your locale. |
```

| Inherited Changed | High | The translated value is inherited from another value, and that value has changed. Ensure that the value is still suitable for your locale.			|
| Abstained | High  | These are values where you and the org you represent have not provided any vote at all. It is best practice to have no abstained values for your language and coverage level to ensure high confidence in our release. If you voted for the item in the previous cycle and the same value is still winning but your previous vote didn't import, please submit a vote and also go to [Reporting Survey Tool issues][]. |

![Example of a missing item in the dashboard](../../images/gettingStartedGuideMissing.png)

![example of a warning in the dashboard for another locale](../../images/gettingStartedGuideWarning.png)

---

## Searching in the Survey Tool

> The ability to search in the Survey Tool has been added in [CLDR-18423][] and supports searching for: values, English value, and for the codes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Survey Tool supports searching for: values, English value, and for the codes.
```
